Here's a concrete example of a potential issue
with procedural programming in Python.
This code counts up the number of times
a specific song was played assuming
the log of songs was converted to a Python list.
We start by setting a global variable, play count,
to keep track of the number of times the song was played,
and we initialize it to zero.
We then use a for loop to iterate through all the songs in the list.
If the song title is "Despacito," then we increase our play count by one.
When we run this procedure in the final statement,
the code that runs actually changes the variable play count.
As a result, running the same code again with
the exact same input of "Despacito," gives a different result each time.
The problem in this example is easy to see,
but when you have dozens of machines running code in parallel,
and sometimes you need to restart a calculation
if one of the machines has a temporary issue.
These unintended side effects can lead to a major headache.
The confusion comes from sloppy language.
In Python, we casually refer to anything after a def as a function.
But technically, these are often methods or procedures, not functions.
To clear up any confusion,
let's call the type of functions we know from math, pure functions.
To get out of the math class and make this more clear,
let's go through an analogy that will make
functional programming more digestible.